NotesToWindowsDevs.md, before:

 
## Things to use different
 
 - `__int8`, `__int16`, `__int32`, `__int64` use C standard types of: `uint8_t`, `uint16_t`, `uint32_t`, `uint64_t` instead
 - `UINT` use C standard type of `unsigned int` instead
 - `DWORD` use C standard type of `uint32_t` instead
 - Instead of using `VirtualProtect` directly for memory protection & unprotection, use the macros in `PALMemoryProtection.h` for a cross-platform compatible way.
   - Note you need to always use `MEMPROT_SAVE_PROT` & `MEMPROT_PAGESIZE` although you might get no errors for forgetting one but both are required for proper cross platform use of the other macros.
   
### Unordered_map and Enum keys
If using an unordered_map and the key of the map is any Enum type you must also use EnumClassHash in its template for hash matching.
You will not get errors on Windows but it will cause errors for the Linux compile if you forget this change.

Example
```c++
std::unordered_map<CrewStat, std::vector<StatBoost>> statBoosts;
```
Must become
```c++
#include "EnumClassHash.h"
// ...
std::unordered_map<CrewStat, std::vector<StatBoost>, EnumClassHash> statBoosts;
```
Because `CrewStat` is an `enum`.
   
#### VirtualProtect replacement
Instead of
```c
DWORD dwOldProtect;
VirtualProtect(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE, &dwOldProtect);
// stuff
VirtualProtect(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect, &dwOldProtect);
```
Do
```c
#import "PALMemoryProtection.h"
// ...
MEMPROT_SAVE_PROT(dwOldProtect);
MEMPROT_PAGESIZE();

MEMPROT_UNPROTECT(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect);
// stuff
MEMPROT_REPROTECT(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect);
```
   
### Things not yet reimplemented but planned

 - `MessageBoxA` and `MessageBox` have not been reimplemented yet; however, when they are it is likely we will need to use SDL's MessageBox instead for a nice cross-platform method, this might render them slightly differently than the current Windows MessageBox, more information will be added here when a reimplementation is available.
   - On this same note it is likely I will need to add the build requirement of having libsdl on Windows.
   - For now any instance of MessageBox was replaced with writing to standard error when on Linux but that's not ideal.

Commit message:

isnan in math.h presents an issue, use boost library version instead.

NotesToWindowsDevs.md, after:

 
## Things to use different
 
 - `__int8`, `__int16`, `__int32`, `__int64` use C standard types of: `uint8_t`, `uint16_t`, `uint32_t`, `uint64_t` instead
 - `UINT` use C standard type of `unsigned int` instead
 - `DWORD` use C standard type of `uint32_t` instead
 - Instead of using `VirtualProtect` directly for memory protection & unprotection, use the macros in `PALMemoryProtection.h` for a cross-platform compatible way.
   - Note you need to always use `MEMPROT_SAVE_PROT` & `MEMPROT_PAGESIZE` although you might get no errors for forgetting one but both are required for proper cross platform use of the other macros.
   
### Unordered_map and Enum keys
If using an unordered_map and the key of the map is any Enum type you must also use EnumClassHash in its template for hash matching.
You will not get errors on Windows but it will cause errors for the Linux compile if you forget this change.

Example
```c++
std::unordered_map<CrewStat, std::vector<StatBoost>> statBoosts;
```
Must become
```c++
#include "EnumClassHash.h"
// ...
std::unordered_map<CrewStat, std::vector<StatBoost>, EnumClassHash> statBoosts;
```
Because `CrewStat` is an `enum`.
   
### Math.h
Turns out there's fun bugs between C99, early C++11 and the final implementations in GCC6+
Because of this some macros in `math.h` that differ from `<cmath>` like `isnan` and `isinf` provide an issue.
Rather than dealing with this nonsense please use the boost equivalents.

```c++
#include "math.h"
// ...
if(isnan(something))
```
Becomes
```c++
#include <boost/math/special_functions/fpclassify.hpp>
// ...
if(boost::math::isnan(something))
```

#### VirtualProtect replacement
Instead of
```c
DWORD dwOldProtect;
VirtualProtect(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE, &dwOldProtect);
// stuff
VirtualProtect(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect, &dwOldProtect);
```
Do
```c
#import "PALMemoryProtection.h"
// ...
MEMPROT_SAVE_PROT(dwOldProtect);
MEMPROT_PAGESIZE();

MEMPROT_UNPROTECT(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect);
// stuff
MEMPROT_REPROTECT(&vtable[0], sizeof(void*) * g_temporalVTableSize, dwOldProtect);
```
   
### Things not yet reimplemented but planned

 - `MessageBoxA` and `MessageBox` have not been reimplemented yet; however, when they are it is likely we will need to use SDL's MessageBox instead for a nice cross-platform method, this might render them slightly differently than the current Windows MessageBox, more information will be added here when a reimplementation is available.
   - On this same note it is likely I will need to add the build requirement of having libsdl on Windows.
   - For now any instance of MessageBox was replaced with writing to standard error when on Linux but that's not ideal.
